I'd like to take a moment to talk about the heartbreak and devastation in Louisiana, a state that is very special to me.
We are one nation. When one state hurts, we all hurt – and we must all work together to lift each other up. Working, building, restoring together.
Our prayers are with the families who have lost loved ones, and we send them our deepest condolences. Though words cannot express the sadness one feels at times like this, I hope everyone in Louisiana knows that our country is praying for them and standing with them to help them in these difficult hours.
We are one country, one people, and we will have together one great future.
Tonight, I'd like to talk about the New American Future we are going to create together.
Last week, I laid out my plan to bring jobs back to our country.
On Monday, I laid out my plan to defeat Radical Islamic Terrorism.
On Tuesday, in Wisconsin, I talked about how we are going to restore law and order to this country.
Let me take this opportunity to extend our thanks and our gratitude to the police and law enforcement officers in this country who have sacrificed so greatly in these difficult times.
The chaos and violence on our streets, and the assaults on law enforcement, are an attack against all peaceful citizens. If I am elected President, this chaos and violence will end – and it will end very quickly.
Every single citizen in our land has a right to live in safety.
To be one united nation, we must protect all of our people. But we must also provide opportunities for all of our people.
We cannot make America great again if we leave any community behind.
Nearly Four in ten African-American children are living in poverty.I will not rest until children of every color in this country are fully included in the American Dream.
Jobs, safety, opportunity. Fair and equal representation. This is what I promise to African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans, and all Americans.
But to achieve this New American Future we must break from the failures of the past.
As you know, I am not a politician. I have worked in business, creating jobs and rebuilding neighborhoods my entire adult life. I've never wanted to learn the language of the insiders, and I've never been politically correct – it takes far too much time, and can often make more difficult.
Sometimes, in the heat of debate and speaking on a multitude of issues, you don't choose the right words or you say the wrong thing. I have done that, and I regret it, particularly where it may have caused personal pain. Too much is at stake for us to be consumed with these issues.
But one thing I can promise you is this: I will always tell you the truth.
I speak the truth for all of you, and for everyone in this country who doesn't have a voice.
I speak the truth on behalf of the factory worker who lost his or her job.
I speak the truth on behalf of the Veteran who has been denied the medical care they need – and so many are not making it. They are dying.
I speak the truth on behalf of the family living near the border that deserves to be safe in their own country but is instead living with no security at all.
Our campaign is about representing the great majority of Americans – Republicans, Democrats, Independents, Conservatives and Liberals – who read the newspaper, or turn on the TV, and don't hear anyone speaking for them. All they hear are insiders fighting for insiders.
These are the forgotten men and women in our society, and they are angry at so much on so many levels. The poverty, the unemployment, the failing schools, the jobs moving to other countries.
I am fighting for these forgotten Americans.
Fourteen months ago, I declared my campaign for the Presidency on the promise to give our government back to the people. Every day since then, I've worked to repay the loyalty and the faith that you have put in me.
Every day I think about how much is at stake for this country. This isn't just the fight of my life, it's the fight ofour lives – together – to save our country.
I refuse to let another generation of American children be excluded from the American Dream. Our whole country loses when young people of limitless potential are denied the opportunity to contribute their talents because we failed to provide them the opportunities they deserved. Let our children be dreamers too.
Our whole country loses every time a kid doesn't graduate from high school, or fails to enter the workforce or, worse still, is lost to the dreadful world of drugs and crime.
When I look at the failing schools, the terrible trade deals, and the infrastructure crumbling in our inner cities, I know all of this can be fixed - and it can be fixed very quickly.
In the world I come from, if something is broken, you fix it.
If something isn't working, you replace it.
If a product doesn't deliver, you make a change.
I have no patience for injustice, no tolerance for government incompetence, no sympathy for leaders who fail their citizens.
That's why I am running: to end the decades of bitter failure and to offer the American people a new future of honesty, justice and opportunity. A future where America, and its people, always – and I mean always – come first.
Aren't you tired of a system that gets rich at your expense?
Aren't you tired of the same old lies and the same old broken promises? And Hillary Clinton has proven to be one of the greatest liars of all time.
Aren't you tired of arrogant leaders who look down on you, instead of serving and protecting you?
That is all about to change – and it's about to change soon. We are going to put the American people first again.
I've travelled all across this country laying out my bold and modern agenda for change.
In this journey, I will never lie to you. I will never tell you something I do not believe. I will never put anyone's interests ahead of yours.
And, I will never, ever stop fighting for you.
I have no special interest. I am spending millions of dollars on my own campaign – nobody else is.
My only interest is the American people.
So while sometimes I can be too honest, Hillary Clinton is the exact opposite: she never tells the truth. One lie after another, and getting worse each passing day.
The American people are still waiting for Hillary Clinton to apologize for all of the many lies she's told to them, and the many times she's betrayed them.
Tell me, has Hillary Clinton ever apologized for lying about her illegal email server and deleting 33,000 emails?
Has Hillary Clinton apologized for turning the State Department into a pay-for-play operation where favors are sold to the highest bidder?
Has she apologized for lying to the families who lost loved ones at Benghazi?
Has she apologized for putting Iran on the path to nuclear weapons?
Has she apologized for Iraq? For Libya? For Syria? Has she apologized for unleashing ISIS across the world?
Has Hillary Clinton apologized for the decisions she made that have led to so much death, destruction and terrorism?
Speaking of lies, we now know from the State Department announcement that President Obama lied about the $400 million dollars in cash that was flown to Iran. He denied it was for the hostages, but it was. He said we don't pay ransom, but he did. He lied about the hostages – openly and blatantly – just like he lied about Obamacare.
Now the Administration has put every American travelling overseas, including our military personnel, at greater risk of being kidnapped. Hillary Clinton owns President Obama's Iran policy, one more reason she can never be allowed to be President.
Let's talk about the economy. Here, in this beautiful state, so many people have suffered because of NAFTA. Bill Clinton signed the deal, and Hillary Clinton supported it. North Carolina has lost nearly half of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA went into effect.
Bill Clinton also put China into the World Trade Organization – another Hillary Clinton-backed deal. Your city of Charlotte has lost 1 in 4 manufacturing jobs since China joined the WTO, and many of these jobs were lost while Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State – our chief diplomat with China. She was a disaster, totally unfit for the job.
Hillary Clinton owes the State of North Carolina a very big apology, and I think you'll get that apology around the same time you'll get to see her 33,000 deleted emails.
Another major issue in this campaign has been the border. Our open border has allowed drugs and crime and gangs to pour into our communities. So much needless suffering, so much preventable death. I've spent time with the families of wonderful Americans whose loved ones were killed by the open borders and Sanctuary Cities that Hillary Clinton supports.
I've embraced the crying parents who've lost their children to violence spilling across our border. Parents like Laura Wilkerson and Michelle Root and Sabine Durden and Jamiel Shaw whose children were killed by illegal immigrants.
My opponent supports Sanctuary Cities.
But where was the Sanctuary for Kate Steinle? Where was the Sanctuary for the children of Laura, Michelle, Sabine and Jamiel?
Where was the Sanctuary for every other parent who has suffered so horribly?
These moms and dads don't get a lot of consideration from our politicians. They certainly don't get apologies. They'll never even get the time of day from Hillary Clinton.
But they will always come first to me.
Listen closely: we will deliver justice for all of these American Families. We will create a system of immigration that makes us all proud.
Hillary Clinton's mistakes destroy innocent lives, sacrifice national security, and betray the working families of this country.
Please remember this: I will never put personal profit before national security. I will never leave our border open to appease donors and special interests. I will never support a trade deal that kills American jobs. I will never put the special interests before the national interest. I will never put a donor before a voter, or a lobbyist before a citizen.
Instead, I will be a champion for the people.
The establishment media doesn't cover what really matters in this country, or what's really going on in people's lives. They will take words of mine out of context and spend a week obsessing over every single syllable, and then pretend to discover some hidden meaning in what I said.
Just imagine for a second if the media spent this energy holding the politicians accountable who got innocent Americans like Kate Steinle killed – she was gunned down by an illegal immigrant who had been deported five times.
Just imagine if the media spent this much time investigating the poverty and joblessness in our inner cities.
Just think about how much different things would be if the media in this country sent their cameras to our border, or to our closing factories, or to our failing schools. Or if the media focused on what dark secrets must be hidden in the 33,000 emails Hillary Clinton deleted.
Instead, every story is told from the perspective of the insiders. It's the narrative of the people who rigged the system, never the voice of the people it's been rigged against.
So many people suffering in silence. No cameras, no coverage, no outrage from a media class that seems to get outraged over just about everything else.
So again, it's not about me. It's never been about me. It's about all the people in this country who don't have a voice.
I am running to be their voice.
I am running to be the voice for every forgotten part of this country that has been waiting and hoping for a better future.
I am glad that I make the powerful a little uncomfortable now and again – including some powerful people in my own party. Because it means I am fighting for real change.
There's a reason the hedge fund managers, the financial lobbyists, the Wall Street investors, are throwing their money at Hillary Clinton. Because they know she will make sure the system stays rigged in their favor.
It's the powerful protecting the powerful.
The insiders fighting for the insiders.
I am fighting for you.
Here is the change I propose.
On terrorism, we are going to end the era of nation-building and instead focus on destroying ISIS and Radical Islamic terrorism.
We will use military, cyber and financial warfare and work with any partner in the world, and the Middle East, that shares our goal of defeating terrorism. I have a message for the terrorists trying to kill our citizens: we will find you, we will destroy you, and we will win.
On immigration, we will temporarily suspend immigration from any place where adequate screening cannot be performed. All applicants for immigration will be vetted for ties to radical ideology, and we will screen out anyone who doesn't share our values and love our people. Anyone who believes Sharia law supplants American law will not be given an immigrant visa. If you want to join our society, then you must embrace our society, our values and our tolerant way of life. Those who believe in oppressing women, gays, Hispanics, African-Americans and people of different faiths are not welcome to join our country.
We will promote our America values, our American way of life, and our American system of government which are all the best in the world.
My opponent on the other hand wants a 550% increase in Syrian refugees. Her plan would bring in roughly 620,000 refugees from all refugee-sending nations in her first term, on top of all other immigration. Hillary Clinton is running to be America's Angela Merkel, and we've seen how much crime and how many problems that's caused the German people.
We have enough problems already, we don't need another one.
On crime, we are going to add more police, more investigators, and appoint the best judges and prosecutors in the world. We will pursue strong enforcement of federal laws.
The gangs and cartels and criminal syndicates terrorizing our people will be stripped apart one by one. Their day is over.
On trade, we are going to renegotiate NAFTA, withdraw from the TPP, stand up to China on our terrible trade agreement, and protect every last American job.
Hillary Clinton has supported all of the major trade deals that have stripped this country of its jobs and its wealth.
On taxes, we are going to massively cut tax rates for workers and small businesses – creating millions of new good paying jobs.
We are going to get rid of regulations that send jobs overseas and we are going to make it easier for young Americans to get the credit they need to start a small business and pursue their dreams.
On education, we are going to give students choice, and allow charter schools to thrive. We are going to end tenure policies that reward bad teachers and hurt good ones. My opponent wants to deny students choice and opportunity, all to get a little bit more money from the education bureaucracy. She doesn't care how many young dreams are dashed in the process.
We are going to work closely with African-American parents and students in the inner cities – and what a big difference that will make. This means a lot to me, and it is going to be a top priority in a Trump Administration.
On healthcare, we are going to repeal and replace Obamacare. Countless Americans have been forced into part-time jobs, premiums are about to jump by double-digits yet again, and just this week Aetna announced it is pulling out of the exchanges in North Carolina. We are going to replace this disaster with reforms that give you choice and freedom and control in healthcare – at a much lower cost.
On political corruption, we are going to restore honor to our government.
In my Administration, I am going to enforce all laws concerning the protection of classified information. No one will be above the law.
I am going to forbid senior officials from trading favors for cash by preventing them from collecting lavish speaking fees through their spouses when they serve.
I am going to ask my senior officials to sign an agreement not to accept speaking fees from corporations with a registered lobbyist for five years after leaving office, or from any entity tied to a foreign government.
Finally, we are going to bring this country together. We are going to do it by emphasizing what we all have in common as Americans. We are going to reject the bigotry of Hillary Clinton, which sees communities of color only as votes and not as human beings worthy of a better future.
If African-American voters give Donald Trump a chance by giving me their vote, the result for them will be amazing. Look at how badly things are going under decades of Democratic leadership – look at the schools, look at the 58% of young African-Americans not working. It is time for change.
What do you have to lose by trying something new? – I will fix it. This means so much to me, and I will work as hard as I can to bring new opportunity to places in our country which have not known opportunity in a very long time.
Hillary Clinton and the Democratic Party have taken African-American votes totally for granted. Because the votes have been automatically there, there has been no reason for Democrats to produce.
It is time to break with the failures of the past, and to fight for every last American child in this country to have the better future they deserve.
In my Administration, every American will be treated equally, protected equally, and honored equally. We will reject bigotry and hatred and oppression in all of its forms, and seek a new future built on our common culture and values as one American people.
This is the change I am promising all of you: an honest government, a fair economy, and a just society for each and every American.
But we can never fix our problems by relying on the same politicians who created these problems in the first place.
72% of voters say our country is on the wrong track. I am the change candidate, Hillary Clinton is the failed status quo.
It is time to vote for a New American Future.
Together, We will make America strong again.
We will make American proud again.
We will make America safe again.
Friends and fellow citizens: Come November, we will make America great again.
Thank You, and God Bless.
It is a privilege to be here this morning with so many distinguished members of our armed services.
Before we get started with our Q & A, I'd like to address one of the most important aspects of America's national security, and that's Cyber Security.
To truly make America safe, we must make cybersecurity a major priority for both the government and the private sector.
Cyber theft is the fastest growing crime in the United States.
As President, improving cyber security will be an immediate and top priority for my Administration.
One of the very first things I will do is to order a thorough review of our cyber defenses and weaknesses, including all vital infrastructure.
Cyber-attacks from foreign governments, especially China, Russia, and North Korea along with non-state terrorist actors and organized criminal groups, constitute one of our most critical national security concerns.
Hillary Clinton's only experience in cyber security involves her criminal scheme to violate federal law, engineering a massive cover-up, and putting the entire nation in harm's way. The fact that a former Senator and Secretary of State claimed not to know what the letter "C" means is just one more example of why she's unfit to hold public office.
The scope of our cyber security problem is enormous. Our government, our businesses, our trade secrets, and our citizens' most sensitive information are all facing constant cyber attacks.
Just consider some of these recent hacks:
JP Morgan Chase had 73 million emails stolen.
E-Bay was invaded and gave up 150 million passwords.
Target was attacked and gave up 40 million credit card numbers.
Attacks like these are happening on a regular basis both in the United States and around the world, and the costs in our privacy, our security and on our financial sector are extraordinary.
Identify theft, financial laundering, as well as ransom ware – involving the extortion of a hacked institution – are all becoming increasingly common.
Incredibly, hackers were able to obtain at least 20 million identities of people who underwent FBI background investigations.
The information hacked contains facts discovered by the FBI in doing background checks for people seeking positions with the Federal Government. It is a treasure trove which can be easily used for blackmail.
The fact that this highly classified information was so poorly protected demonstrates that cyber security is just one more area where the Obama Administration has failed.
We should not let this be like the history of the Mafia which was allowed to grow into a nation-wide organization which infiltrated and corrupted so many areas of society for such a long time.
We can learn from this history that when the Department of Justice, the FBI, the DEA and state and local police and prosecutors were combined in Task Forces directed at the Mafia, they were able to have great success in prosecuting them, seizing their business interests and removing their infiltration from legitimate areas of society.
As President, I will instruct the Department of Justice to create Joint Task Forces throughout the United States to work together with Federal, State, and local law enforcement authorities and international law enforcement to crush this still-developing area of crime.
I will make certain that our military is the best in the world in both cyber offense and defense. I will also ask my Secretary of Defense and Joint Chiefs to present recommendations for strengthening and augmenting our Cyber Command.
As a deterrent against attacks on our critical resources, the United States must possess the unquestioned capacity to launch crippling cyber counter-attacks. This is the warfare of the future, America's dominance in this arena must be unquestioned.
Cyber security is not only a question of developing defensive technologies but offensive technologies as well.
For non-state terror actors, the United States must develop the ability – no matter how difficult – to track down and incapacitate those responsible. We should turn cyber warfare into one of our greatest weapons against the terrorists.
To enhance the defense of the other agencies of government, including our law enforcement agencies, we will put together a team of the best military, civilian and private sector cyber security experts to comprehensively review all of our cyber security systems and technology.
The Cyber Review Team will proceed with the most sensitive systems first, but ultimately all systems will be analyzed and made as secure as modern technology permits.
I will also require that follow-up reviews take place on a regular basis determined by the sensitive nature of the security involved.
The review will include providing exact recommendations for the best combination of defensive technologies tailored to specific agencies.
This will include the various methods of internal monitoring, attack and penetration, investigation of suspected hackers or rogue employees, and identity protection for government employees.
The review team will also remain current on the constantly-evolving new methods of attack, and will attempt to anticipate them and develop defenses as often as possible before major breaches occur.
This group of experts will set up protocols for each agency and government officials, requiring them to follow best practices.
They will also establish a training program for all government employees to make certain they understand what defenses are available and utilize them, along with a continuing education program so everyone is aware of the newest methods of both attack and defense.
Those who violate classification rules will be held responsible to the fullest extent of the law. I will appoint an Attorney General who will reform the Department of Justice like it was necessary after Watergate. My Attorney General will restore the integrity of the Department of Justice.
Today is just the beginning of a long and overdue national discussion of how to protect ourselves from modern cyber-crime and evolving national security threats, and how to develop the cyber offense strategies necessary to gain a critical security edge in the 21st century.
Thank you. I want to applaud my daughter, Ivanka, for her work and leadership on the issues facing working moms in our country. She has been deeply invested in this since long before the campaign began, and I am so grateful for her work and efforts on this proposal which I will be outlining today.
I want to also take a moment to recognize Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Chairwoman of the House Republican Conference and a mother of three small children, who has been such a leader on these issues.
We are also joined tonight by some amazing members of Congress in our audience: Congresswoman Blackburn, Lummis, Black, and Ellmers.
Our campaign is about ideas. We're about solutions. I've travelled all over the country in recent weeks offering detailed plans to make life better for you and your family.
I've outlined detailed proposals for providing school choice, reforming our tax and regulatory code, lifting restrictions on American energy, rebuilding our military, changing our foreign policy, fixing our immigration policy, and keeping our country safe.
Right now, our politicians have locked our country into endless fights about small and petty things. I'm asking the nation to lift our sights, and to imagine what we can accomplish if we work together, trust each other, and put the needs of our own citizens first.
We must break our ties with the failed and bitter politics of the past and pursue a future where every American is honored and respected.
We have to reject the arrogance of Washington D.C. that looks down on everyday hardworking people. Too often those who have power have disdain for the views, beliefs and attitudes of those who don't have political power.
Those in leadership must put themselves in the shoes of the laid-off factory worker, the family worried about security, or the mom struggling to afford childcare.
That means we need working mothers to be fairly compensated for their work, and to have access to affordable, quality child care for their kids.
We want higher pay, better wages, and a growing economy for everyone.
These solutions must update laws passed more than half a century ago when most women were still not in the labor force. Today, nearly 2 in 3 mothers with young children have jobs.
For many families in our country, childcare is now the single largest expense – even more than housing.
Yet, very little meaningful policy work has been done in this area – and my opponent has no childcare plan.
Many Americans are just one crisis away from disaster – a sick kid, a lost job, a damaged home. There is no financial security.
But that will all change under our pro-family, pro-child, pro-worker plans I am outlining tonight. Before going any further, I want everyone watching on TV right now to go to DonaldJTrump.com to read the full plan.
The first part of my childcare plan allows every parent or family in America – including adoptive parents and foster parent guardians – to deduct their childcare expenses from their income taxes.
They will be able to fully deduct the average cost of child care for their state, from birth through the age of 13.
Because of the way the benefit is capped and structured, our plan will bring relief to working and middle class families.
The deduction also applies to elder care, capped at a $5,000-dollar deduction per year.
Importantly, our policy also supports mothers who choose to stay at home, and honors and recognizes their incredible contributions
to their families and to our society. Families with a stay-at-home parent will be able to fully deduct the average cost of child care from their taxes.
For low-income individuals who have no net income tax liability, we will offer an expanded Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) in the form of a childcare rebate. Working parents can get an expanded EITC benefit that equals up to half of their total payroll tax – a major relief for low-income parents. This translates to as much as an extra $1,200 dollars in EITC benefits for working families.
Next, our plan allows every parent in America to open up a Dependent Care Savings Account. Families can contribute up to $2,000 dollars a year to these accounts completely tax-free. Crucially, unlike the flexible spending accounts that exist today, these accounts will be available to all Americans – you won't have to depend on your employer to provide them.
Immediate family and employers can also contribute to a dependent account, each of which is designated for a specific child, including an unborn child.
The money that is put into these accounts can also be spent not only on child care, but also child enrichment activities. Additionally, the funds in these accounts do not expire at the end of the year – they don't revert to employers or to the Treasury. Instead, the funds rollover – so while only $2,000 dollars can be contributed each year, unspent sums can accumulate and create substantial savings.
These savings can then be used by parents to help give their kids school choice, and will thus contribute to the school choice reforms
I outlined last week.
The funds will remain in the account until the age of 18. Whatever still remains at that time can be used to help offset the costs of higher education.
For low-income individuals, the federal government will provide matching funds – if parents contribute $1,000 dollars, the federal government will provide a $500 dollars match. To help low-income families reach these targets and save money, we will put a box on federal income tax forms allowing these parents to have their Earned Income Tax Credit funds directly deposited into their Dependent Care Savings Accounts.
These Dependent Care Savings Accounts can also be set-up to provide care for elderly dependents.
Our plan also includes much needed regulatory reform to incentivize private sector solutions. The new funds offered by our plan will create a new market for innovative childcare solutions.
But to make sure these solutions are available, especially in low-income and rural communities, we must reduce regulations that favor large institutional care facilities. We will allow the states to make the decisions that are right for them.
In this era of the sharing economy, we want parents to be able to access lower-cost, competitive and innovative solutions at the click of a button – including services like nanny-sharing. Our plan would also cover care provided by relatives and grandparents.
Our plan includes incentives for more employers to offer on-site childcare as well. This can often be a good solution for many working parents, and can save them up to 30 minutes of commute time. Currently, only 7% of employers provide these services. Our plan will expand tax deductions for employers, allow companies to pool resources to provide shared childcare services, and remove needless requirements that have prevented employers from using the credit.
Finally, our plan offers a crucial safety net for working mothers whose employers do not provide paid maternity leave. This solution will receive strong bipartisan support, and will be completely self-financing. By recapturing fraud and improper payments in the unemployment insurance program, we can provide 6 weeks of paid-maternity leave to any mother with a newborn child whose employer does not provide the benefit. This maternity leave will be paid straight out of the unemployment insurance fund and, again, this safety net will be completely paid-for through savings within the program.
There are more reforms and solutions in our childcare plan, and you can review them all on the website.
On Thursday, I will outline my full economic plan, which is completely paid for through economic growth and proposed federal budget savings. Together, our tax, trade, regulatory, and energy policies will add trillions in new deficit-lowering growth.
These are the kinds of solutions I want to bring to the White House as your President. It's time to free ourselves from the baskets that politicians try to put us in, and instead to work together – not as Republicans or Democrats – but as Americans, to achieve real, positive results for the American people.
While my opponent slanders you as deplorable and irredeemable, I call you, hard-working American Patriots who love your country, love
your families, and want a better future for all Americans.
It's time to end the rule of special interests, and to begin the rule of the American people.
It's time to stop fighting over the smallest words, and to start dreaming about the great adventures that lie ahead.
It is time to Believe In America.
Together, We Will Make Our Country Strong Again.
We Will Make Our Country Prosperous Again.
And Will Make Our Country Great Again For Everyone.