On this wonderful Veterans Day, I want to express the incredible gratitude of the entire American nation to the millions and millions of veterans who bravely defended our nation in uniform, and the strong families whose unwavering love and support allowed you to answer the call of duty
We applaud your service, salute your sacrifice and pay tribute to your profound patriotism and love of our country. You have earned our freedom with your strength, determination and truly unbreakable resolve.
America's veterans are this country's greatest national treasure. There's nothing close. You are the best role models for our youngest citizens, and you are the constant reminder of all that is good, decent and brave.
You have given this country all that you have to give and just as you fulfill your duty to America, now America must fulfill our duty to all of you. We must ensure that our veterans are given the care and support they so richly deserve. That is our unwavering commitment to those who served under the flag of the United States.
It is the highest honor of my life to serve as the commander-in-chief of our heroic Armed Forces, and our obligation to our courageous men and women is absolute. We must provide our service members with the best equipment, resources, training and support in the world, and we must ensure that support continues after our heroes return to civilian life as veterans.
We are very, very proud of them. Today, I ask all Americans to show their love, support and gratitude to you, our veterans. The men and women who make freedom possible to protect America against all of its enemies, and who sacrifice forges the noble bonds of peace. There is nobody like you.
No words can serve as a better tribute to your service, then the battlefields where you fought for our flag, and the cities and towns that live in freedom only because of you.
Your strength is America's spine. Your devotion is America's soul, and your patriotism is America's beating heart. So today and every day the shared heart of the American people beats with pride for our beloved veterans.
On behalf of myself, Melania, my entire family, and a grateful nation, thank you to each and every one of America's veterans. May God bless you and your families, and may God bless the United States of America? Thank you.